# 3.1.1.6.3 Supported Data Removal Mechanism Definition

- 3.1.1.6.3 Supported Data Removal Mechanism Definition Each bit of the Supported Data Removal Mechanism (see Table 10) SHALL be set to one if the TPer supports the corresponding Data Removal Mechanism; otherwise, each bit SHALL be set to zero. The TPer SHALL support the Crypto Erase mechanism and MAY support the Overwrite Data Erase or Block Erase or other mechanisms. The TPer MAY support multiple Data Removal Mechanisms described in Table 10. After a RevertSP method has completed without an error, the condition of user data SHALL be indicated as specified in Table 10.
- 3.1.1.6.4 Data Removal Time Format and Data Removal Time Definition
Each Data Removal Time field provides the worst case estimate of the time required to perform the erasure corresponding to each Data Removal Mechanism defined in the Supported Data Removal Mechanism field. The Data Removal Time Format bit identifies the format used to express the time as follows:
- a) if the Data Removal Time Format bit is set to zero, then the estimated time is defined in Table 11; and
- b) if the Data Removal Time Format bit is set to one, then the estimated time is defined in Table 12.
- Table 11 - Data Removal Time (Data Removal Time Format bit= 0)
- Table 12 - Data Removal Time (Data Removal Time Format bit= 1)
| Value | Time |
| --- | --- |
| 0 | Not reported |
| 1..65534 | (Value x 2) minutes |
| 65535 | >= 131068 minutes |
Start of Informative Comment Each Data Removal Time field gives an estimate of the total time required to perform the erasure for each corresponding Data Removal Mechanism. This field is not a dynamic estimate of the remaining time for completion.
When GenKey is performed on a range that’s less than the global range, the time needed for the completion of the operation can be less than the time reported for the operation. The reported estimated time for the data removal operation will be for the entire capacity of the Storage Device. The host software can use the ratio of the band size to the entire capacity of the Storage Device, to derive the estimated time for erasing a band.
