# 4.3.3 Crypto Template Tables

- 4.3.3 Crypto Template Tables An Opal SSC compliant Storage Device is not required to support any Crypto template tables.
- 4.3.4 Crypto Template Methods Refer to section 4.3.1.5 for supported methods.
Column Number Column Name IsUnique Column Type 0x07 AlignmentRequired boolean 0x08 LogicalBlockSize uinteger_4 0x09 AlignmentGranularity uinteger_8 0x0A LowestAlignedLBA uniteger_8
| Column Number | Column Name | IsUnique | Column Type |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 0x07 | AlignmentRequired |  | boolean |
| 0x08 | LogicalBlockSize |  | uinteger_4 |
| 0x09 | AlignmentGranularity |  | uinteger_8 |
| 0x0A | LowestAlignedLBA |  | uniteger_8 |
- AlignmentRequired This column indicates whether the TPer requires ranges in the Locking table to be aligned (see section 4.3.5.2.1). If AlignmentRequired is TRUE, then the TPer requires ranges to be aligned. If AlignmentRequired is FALSE, then the TPer does not require ranges to be aligned. This column SHALL NOT be modifiable by the host and MAY be retrieved by Anybody.
- LogicalBlockSize This column indicates the number of bytes in a logical block. This column SHALL NOT be modifiable by the host and MAY be retrieved by Anybody.
- AlignmentGranularity This column indicates the number of logical blocks in a group, for alignment purposes (see section 5.4). This column SHALL NOT be modifiable by the host and MAY be retrieved by Anybody.
- LowestAlignedLBA This column indicates the lowest logical block address that is located at the beginning of an alignment granularity group (see section 5.4). This column SHALL NOT be modifiable by the host and MAY be retrieved by Anybody.
UID Name Version EncryptSupport MaxRanges MaxReEncryptions KeysAvailableCfg AlignmentRequired LogicalBlockSize AlignmentGranularity LowestAlignedLBA
| UID | Name | Version | EncryptSupport | MaxRanges | MaxReEncryptions | KeysAvailableCfg | AlignmentRequired | LogicalBlockSize | AlignmentGranularity | LowestAlignedLBA |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 00 00 08 01 00 00 00 01 |  |  | Media Encryption | 81 |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
1. The MaxRanges column in Table 44 specifies the number of supported ranges and SHALL have a minimum of 8 ranges.
